# 2.2 - Adding headers

Let's begin interacting with Minecraft, to achieve this, you will need to include header files specific to the game. For now premade headers can be used. In later sections of this guide, you will learn how to create your own headers to work with different parts of the game that don't have existing headers yet.


## Using FrederoxDev/Bedrock-Headers

The FrederoxDev/Bedrock-Headers repository is a public repository containing community-made header files and symbol maps. Follow the steps below to integrate it into your project:

1. Start a command line prompt inside your Template folder and run the following command:
```ps
git submodule add https://github.com/FrederoxDev/Bedrock-Headers
```

<br />

2. This command adds the repository as a git submodule, allowing you to use the files inside it. Once the submodule is added, close the project in Visual Studio and execute the following commands:
```ps
rmdir /s /q maps
rmdir /s /q build
```
These commands remove the existing `maps` and `build` directories.

Next, open the `CMakeLists.txt` file and make the following two changes:
- Change `set(IncludeDir inc)` into `set(IncludeDir Bedrock-Headers/inc)`
- Change `set(maps_directory "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/maps")` into `set(maps_directory "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/Bedrock-Headers/maps")`


## Regenerating the project with CMake

1. Open up the CMake Gui tool. Next set the source code location to your new `Template` folder, next set the build location to `Template/build` (Make sure to include the full path).

<br />

2. In the bottom left hit configure, set the `Optional platform` to `x64`, and press `Finish` and wait for it to finish.

<br />

3. Next click `Generate` and then `Open Project`, this will then open inside of Visual Studio.