# 2.4 - Item Icons

1. Firstly create a hook for `VanillaItems::initClientData`. This is where items need to register their icons. 
```cpp
inline static void (*_initClientData)();
static void initClientData()
{
    _initClientData();
}
```

<br />

2. If you look through the `Item` class header, you will find two virtual functions which are called `setIcon`, this is the function needed to set the icon. As the `setIcon` function needs to be called inside of the `initClientData` hook, there needs to be a way to reference the item to call that function on. Hover over the `ItemRegistry::registerItem` function, and you will see it returns a `WeakPtr<Item>`. Firstly define a new variable in `Example.cpp` and modify the line where the item is registered to assign `testItem` to the returned value.
```cpp
inline static WeakPtr<Item> testItem;
```
```cpp
static void registerItems(bool flag)
{
	_registerItems(flag);
	testItem = ItemRegistry::registerItem<Item>("guide:test_item", ItemRegistry::getMaxItemID());
}
```

<br />

3. Now inside of the `initClientData` hook, use the arrow operator `->` to call the member function `setIcon` on `testItem`. The function takes in the texture identifier, in this case `"diamond"` and also the frame, in this case pass `0`
```cpp
static void initClientData()
{
	_initClientData();
	testItem->setIcon("diamond", 0);
}
```

## Creating a Resource Pack

1. To use your own texture icons you will need to create a resource pack, open the `Template/resources/assets/` folder. Inside create a file called `manifest.json`. Using this [UUID4 Generator](https://www.uuidgenerator.net/) generate two seperate UUIDS, and fill in each `"uuid"` field (Do not use the same UUID twice).
```json
{
	"format_version": 2,
	"header": {
		"description": "resourcePack.addon.description",
		"name": "resourcePack.addon.name",
		"uuid": "", // First UUID
		"version": [ 0, 0, 1 ],
		"min_engine_version": [ 1, 14, 0 ]
	},
	"modules": [
		{
			"description": "resourcePack.addon.description",
			"type": "resources",
			"uuid": "", // Second UUID
			"version": [ 0, 0, 1 ]
		}
	]
}
```

<br />

2. Next inside of `Template/resources/assets/` create a new folder called `textures` and open it. Inside create a file called `item_texture.json`. Here it defines a new icon with the identifier `guide:test_item`. 
```json
{
	"resource_pack_name": "resourcePack.addon.name",
	"texture_name": "atlas.items",
	"texture_data": {
		"guide:test_item": {
			"textures": "textures/items/test_item"
		}
	}
}
```

<br />

3. Next inside of `Template/resources/assets/textures` create a folder called `items`, and in that folder place any `16x16` pixel texture with the name `test_item.png`. Now in the line in `Example.cpp` where we call `setIcon` change the identifier from `"diamond"` to `"guide:test_item"`
```cpp
static void initClientData()
{
	_initClientData();
	testItem->setIcon("guide:test_item", 0);
}
```

<br />

4. In Visual Studio, click on `Rebuild Solution` under the `Build` tab at the top, in order to have the changes of your resource pack built too. Next open Minecraft and your item should now have the icon which you created. 

## Common Texture issues

- ### Black & purple checkerboard texture
    A black and purple checkerboarded texture indacates that the path you gave for the icon in `Template/resources/assets/item_texture.json` was incorrect, and the game was unable to find the texture

- ### Invisible texture
    An invisible texture indacates that the identifier you gave for the item icon, and the identifier passed in `setIcon` were not the same