# 3 - Writing Headers

> Writing headers will be a difficult topic as it is very different to programming. The end goal is to replicate the headers of Minecraft with the right size and order so that it is represented in Memory the same.

## Pre-requisites

1. You will need to get the `Windows Server (1.14.60.5)` and the `Linux Server (1.14.60.5)`, you can download an archived version from the [Minecraft Fandom page](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Bedrock_Dedicated_Server_1.14.60.5).

<br />

2. Next you will need to get the `Windows Client (1.14.60.5)`, however you will already have this installed though ZenovaLauncher if you have followed through the guide. To find it press <kbd>Win + R</kbd> and enter `%zenova_data%/versions/Minecraft-1.14.60.5/`

<br />

3. Lastly you will need the `Mac Education Client (1.14.70)`, this guide will not tell you how you can get this version. It is important that you get version `1.14.70`, as it contains a DWARF information. Make sure to unzip the `.dmg` file to a folder before analysing, or else you will not be able to find the right file.

## Analysing in Ghidra

Analysing the files in Ghidra will take a long time, on an i3-1005G1 CPU, it took roughly 6 hours to analyse each version. Although you only will need to analyse 3 of the 4 versions, as you **do not need** to analyse the `Linux Server`. Follow the next steps for one version at a time.

1. Open Ghidra and select `File > New Project`, next select `Non-Shared Project` and enter an clearly labeled name for the version you are analysing. 

<br />

2. Next press <kbd>I</kbd> and locate the file for your version
    - Windows Server - `bedrock_server.exe`
    - Windows Client - `Minecraft.Windows.exe`
    - Mac Edu Client - `minecraftpe` 

<br />

3. After you have imported the right file, double click it in the `Active Project` tab to open it in the `CodeBrowser`. It will then prompt you to `Auto-Analyse` the file, press `OK` and leave the default settings and confirm again. Close any open ghidra windows by pressing the black X in the top right corner, this will decrease the amount of work that Ghidra has to do.

<br />

4. Leave it to analyse, once done make sure to save the project with <kbd>Ctrl + S</kbd> so that you will not have to analyse it again.

## FrederoxDev/Bedrock-GhidraScripts

To try and automate as much as possible, scripts have been written which can automatically generate the large majority of the header files. To install them run the following commands in **PowerShell (Not CMD)**
```powershell
cd "$env:USERPROFILE\ghidra_scripts"
git clone https://github.com/FrederoxDev/Bedrock-GhidraScripts.git .
```